# covid-19-nyc-read-pdf
Department of heath is publishing everyday the covid data in web site [https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/covid/covid-19-data.page]

Below are challenges for analysts/data scientists to analyse or trend this covid data. 
1. Data is stored in PDF file 
2. Data is uploaded every day and each day data is stored in a separate file
3. Unfriendly data format, eg: numbers are stored something like 1110 (43%) 

To overcome the above challenge, I developed 3 python programs. These programs would automatically download the PDF file stored in DOH website everyday and it would extract the PDF data, make the data user-friendly, convert it into Pandas dataframe and export it to CSV or pipe delimitted file. The analysts/data scientists could use this file to analyze/trend the data in jupiter notebook. Below are details of each script: 

1. ReadHistoricalNYC_PDF.py: This program would reads all PDF files for defined data range and concatinates into one pandas data frame and would export each category data into CSV/Pipe delimitted file. 
2. ReadFailedPDFs.py: This program is used for troubleshooting purpose. For some dates the ReadHistoricalNYC_PDF.py failed to parse the PDF file since the PDF file structure is different. We can debug this program to analyze the cause for failure and change the code accordingly to generate the csv/pipe delimitted file.
3. DailyReadNYC_PDF.py: This program is scheduled to run daily which would extract the previous day PDF, transform to pandas data frame, concat with the output generated by eadHistoricalNYC_PDF.py. This is the final output containing latest data and historical data.

Prerequisite: 
1. Install tabula-py: pip3 install tabula-py --user
2. Inatall Pandas
